A builder's guide to living a long and healthy life Subscribe Sign in A builder’s guide to living a long and healthy life For something a little different Justin Mares Oct 28, 2025 ∙ Paid 256 12 11 Share 👋 Hey there, I’m Lenny. Each week, I tackle reader questions about building product, driving growth, and accelerating your career. For more: Lennybot | Lenny’s Podcast | How I AI | Lenny’s Reads | My favorite AI and PM courses | My favorite public speaking course Annual subscribers get a free year of 17 premium products: Devin, Lovable, Replit, Bolt, n8n, Wispr Flow, Descript, Linear, Gamma, Superhuman, Granola, Warp, Perplexity, Raycast, Magic Patterns, Mobbin, and ChatPRD (while supplies last). Subscribe now . Subscribe Since turning 40, I’ve felt a lot less invincible. For the first time in my life, my annual bloodwork results weren’t 100% healthy. A few months ago, I broke my pinkie toe on the edge of a wall. Last month, I sprained my wrist trying to adjust an A/C unit. Last week, I banged up my knee after slipping on a staircase. Then I took a toxins screen and learned I’m half-man, half-plastic: So over the past year I’ve started getting serious about my health: tracking my nutrition, exercising, experimenting with supplements, focusing on my sleep, etc. Along that journey, I came across Justin Mares . Unlike the health folks everyone knows—Andrew Huberman, Rhonda Patrick, Bryan Johnson— Justin is a full-time builder. He co-founded Kettle & Fire , Perfect Keto , Surely , and now Truemed , and he’s basically a health nerd who spends hundreds of hours researching what to buy for himself and his family and shares what he learns in blog posts and tweets. When I decide what products to buy and which brands to trust, I’ve found myself constantly referencing his recommendations, more than anyone else’s. But I’ve always wanted more. So I pitched Justin on putting together a comprehensive and specific list of his favorite products and brands—the safest, least toxic, and highest-quality products he himself buys for clothing, sleep, food, toxin mitigation, and more. This is what you’ll find below. And as a bonus, at the end of the post, we’ve compiled a handy bullet-list summary of every product and brand mentioned. Note, except for a couple that Justin explicitly calls out, neither Justin nor I is an investor in any of these companies, and there are no affiliate deals involved. This is just a well-meaning post to help you all live a long, healthy life . . . so that you can keep building beloved products for many years to come. A huge thank-you to Justin for spending endless hours compiling this list. I will be referencing it frequently . For more from Justin, check out his newsletter and Truemed (buy health products at a steep discount using your HSA). They’re also hiring a marketer ! You can also listen to this post in convenient podcast form: Spotify / Apple / YouTube . In 2011, I was working for my first company while also taking a full college course load. As a committed Tim Ferriss acolyte, I read a blog post about polyphasic sleep. For a whole month, I slept 3.5 hours a night and took a 20-minute nap every four hours, even if that meant leaving class or coming late to a fraternity party. This was insane. After a month of polyphasic sleep—and two crash-outs where I slept 18 hours in a row to recover—I realized it wasn’t for me. But what was for me, and what I’ve mostly stuck to in the 14 years since, is the paleo diet, which I decided to do after reading about it in the same blog post. I went paleo for two weeks my junior year of college (yes, I was the weird kid who would pass on the pizza and beer). And during this two-week experiment, my acne disappeared, I got leaner, slept better, and just had more energy. As it turns out, what you put in your body affects how you feel! If you’re not healthy, you’re not able to perform at your best, period. This is why so many in Silicon Valley are so obsessed with sleep tracking, diet, and other tools to help improve performance at work. Unfortunately, the West is in the throes of a chronic disease crisis . Americans today are the sickest population of humans to ever exist. Nearly 50% of adults have prediabetes or diabetes, 73% are obese or overweight, and the richest American men live 15 years longer than the poorest, almost entirely due to chronic disease burden. Diabetes alone has an economic cost of around $106 billion . In this post, I won’t cover traditional health tips (exercise, get eight hours of sleep, etc.), though they’re crucial. Instead, I want to cover some of the lesser-known health gotchas that consistently sap your health. I’ve spent the past decade of my career building companies in this world: first with Kettle & Fire (now a $100M+ annual revenue brand) and now with Truemed . And I’ve spent hundreds (thousands?) of hours searching for products that are the most effective both at driving real health outcomes and at avoiding many of the common toxins, microplastics, and other unhealthy compounds we encounter on a daily basis. Here are my most recommended products: Sleep Getting good sleep is among the most critical things you can do to improve your health and set yourself up for peak work performance. There’s a ton of literature on why sleep is so important, but for the purposes of this post I’ll assume you’re already a believer. In my view, the 80/20 of sleep health boils down to three things: Exercise during the day Get morning sunlight Optimize your sleep setup (no external light, quiet, low CO 2 , cold) as much as possible Beyond the basics, I’ve found a few products that really help me get my best sleep. I love my Eight Sleep , and have found their pod works incredibly well to help me both increase my deep sleep and avoid wake-ups. For those who have trouble falling and staying asleep, magnesium has been shown to radically improve sleep quality. I think the Momentous magnesium L-threonate supplement is the best out there. If you’re really, really struggling to get to sleep, I have a few friends who swear by the peptide Epitalon . . . though it’s technically a research chemical, so I can’t point you anywhere to get it. Ask your doctor. Or buy it illegally online, but beware of sourcing! Studies have found that mattresses can be a source of harmful chemicals (especially foam ones), as they emit phthalates, benzophenones, and other compounds that have been linked to asthma, developmental issues, and reproductive harm. Sadly, many of these chemicals have not been thoroughly tested (thanks to the insane way we regulate chemicals in the U.S. ), but the few studies we do have are concerning. You may or may not know this, but our current approach to chemical regulation relies on industries to run their own tests and make their own assertions that the novel, never-before-seen chemicals they’re inventing and putting in our products are safe and sound. When a pharma company invents a drug that humans take, it goes through a rigorous FDA approval process that takes a decade and is tested for safety. When a chemical company invents a compound that your body can’t break down and ends up in food, the water supply, and our bodies, regulators require . . . nearly nothing. How does this make sense? It gets worse! That’s our approach to new chemicals. But for the chemicals there have been safety testing for—the thousands that we know are harmful at some dose but where the dose makes the poison—how are exposure limits determined? To determine exposure limits, scientists follow a relatively simple process. First, they’ll expose a lab animal, often a rat, to small amounts of said chemical. They’ll then sit and watch for behavioral changes: Does the rat slow down, look like it’s in pain, or start wobbling a bit? They then continue to increase the dosing of the suspected toxin until they observe behavioral changes in the rat. At that point, they take the dose they exposed the rat to and multiply it by a “safety factor” (usually 100) to account for the difference in weight between rats and humans. And that’s it. Anything below the dose number that’s spit out is now considered . . . safe! To ensure you’re not inhaling toxic compounds that mattresses often off-gas (like VOCs, benzene, and formaldehyde) while sleeping, I highly recommend the Woolshire pillow , the Avocado mattress and pillows, and Coyuchi sheets . Besides Avocado, I have heard good things about Essentia and Naturepedic . And lastly, if you have $80,000 burning a hole in your pocket, I’m sure you can’t go wrong buying Hästens (though I wouldn’t know). Apparently, Drake bought eight of these mattresses for his Toronto home. Clothing Your skin is the largest organ in your body, and it consistently absorbs compounds and chemicals that it’s exposed to. Yet we rarely think about what’s in the clothes we spend nearly all our time wearing. Even though many clothes use dyes and chemicals known to be hazardous, there’s no such thing as a nutrition label, or even a disclaimer, as to what might be in the clothes you put on your body. Turning fibers into clothing is a complicated and chemically intensive process. Thousands of chemicals are used to make clothing, some 10% of which have been shown to disrupt the immune system, increase cancer risk, mess with hormones, and create reproductive issues . Even worse, the fun, stretchy performance fabrics you love to wear probably have the highest level of chemical treatment, and heavily utilize PFAS (forever chemicals) and PBDEs (chemicals used as flame retardants). This could be one reason why PFAS are found in 97% of Americans’ blood. It’s unfortunately not just the chemicals, dyes, and other additives that make your clothing choices important for your health. Extremely common materials like polyester can lower sperm count , yet it’s by far the most popular material used in underwear. These fabrics, and the dyes and chemicals on them, can fairly easily enter the body, especially in areas where your skin is most permeable: your nether regions, feet, and armpits. I strongly recommend at minimum wearing toxin-free, organic cotton or linen socks and underwear. My favorite brands are Industry of All Nations and Pact for underwear ( Nads as runner-up), and Pact for socks. For shirts, I like Paka ’s stuff, especially their T-shirts, as they use a blend of 85% organic cotton and 15% alpaca fibers. Faherty has a surprisingly good selection of organic tees that I’m into. And lastly—though I probably shouldn’t share my secrets— Wax London is my go-to fashionable brand that has tons of organic options. Food This is the area I feel most passionate about. The Standard American Diet (SAD) is terrible. Right now, many Americans get 55% of their calories from ultraprocessed foods . The typical American diet is often bereft of nutrients, is riddled with toxins, and has created the sickest population of humans to ever exist on this planet 🇺🇲. In large part, this is because we have a food system that is uniquely permissive in what it allows in our foods. Worse, international companies (like Mondelez) actually have American versions of the same product , where the American version is simply more processed! When it comes to sourcing foods, the biggest things to optimize for are (1) nutrient density and (2) toxin avoidance. The most nutrient-dense foods are sourced more locally, which inherently means eating seasonally. The farther your food travels, the less nutrient-dense it is. One study found that after nine days of travel, spinach was 90% less nutrient-dense than it was at harvest. Here in Austin, I am fortunate to live near an amazing grocery store ( Radius ), but many major cities have excellent farmers markets or grocery stores to buy local. Beyond nutrient density, it’s important to mitigate common toxins like pesticides (glyphosate, atrazine), phthalates, microplastics (though it’s nearly impossible), and PFAS. That means buying organic where ...